Hello everyone. Today, we came to visit
the Podillia Volunteer Foundation in order to
show how effective volunteer assistance can be,
how people
help, some with money, some with
material assets, some with their own
work, how these resources should be
distributed effectively, so that every hryvnia or every
product or every goodie is
as much as possible.  active and worked
for the armed forces of Ukraine, glory to Ukraine,
let's start. Now we are in
the Podillia charity fund, volunteers who
help the armed forces of Ukraine for the
first year from the city of Khmelnytskyi, I
know them. And today I want to introduce everyone
to the activities of this fund, what they do
and how they help.
Good afternoon  We are now at the
Podillia volunteer post office.
This is where parcels are accepted for
the front line. This is Vasyl Dmytrovych,
who directly
accepts, packages, labels and
arranges parcels in order of priority and
loading. Here are all the parcels
and not only those that are here
today.  are sent to the front line, where
we directly, our drivers
hand over these small things to the boys, and
in addition, of course, we deliver
cars and other necessary things, which
all go in a column and
are handed over directly at the destination points with
ruporukts, so let's get to know
maybe e-  We also have a department of
tactical medicine, which she deals with.
Anna Majevska.
What are you doing now? tell me a tall
package for guys. It is one military one
that can be sent fully equipped with a
first aid kit plus additional
components for tactical doctors. This is
all that should be in a tactical backpack.
We always emphasize that it is  must
be certified pieces. If it is not
a Ketovo tourniquet, this tourniquet is our
Ukrainian Sich. These are cool hemostatics. These are the
correct inclusion stickers. We pack everything.
not pr  we invent a
bicycle, everything is invented by us, so
we form it in accordance with these standards,
if something is missing in the first-aid kit,
we always write, guys, there is everything except, for example,
nasopharyngeal tubes, find and
buy more because it could have been. Well,
we don’t create, you know. So where do the
resources for all this medicine come from, we often buy access
we are on our own, for example, here are the
results, we bought the company of our
Khmelnytskyi Velmud, part of it is
sent to us by funds from Britain
, volunteers from Britain are sent from
where is the fund, where do people donate business,
who are the results, we bought at the expense of the fund,
these are all the funds that are credited to our
account, people are discounted 30 hryvnias
, do they all compete?  they only cost
5 kopecks, because there are a
little more than 57 kopecks, we
have
570 hryvnias left, each of them was given to you
because 5 kopecks, if 50,000 somewhere, yes, I
think that I can’t do something for 50 hryvnias, a
lot of it can be played with those who
pieces, and the master recommends that even the
civilian population wear it because it is
written  and 70 hryvnias, everyone can buy them under the
conditions of
wearing just horizontal bars, but it
would be nice to be able to
use this if necessary.
Someone should know that you have horizontal bars. 10
Maybe we are talking about the fact that
motorists recommend that you review
this first aid kit and throw it away to the damn base.
It's simple  murder, they really
need to be exported, yes, this is very
cool, yes, Russia, Russia, is
it possible? Look, you bring it, you can be
filmed. Yes, look, it is
random visitors. You brought something to the
volunteers.
we do,
you know that they accept some things here and
this is not the first time, come to
you to take it, spend so much time to
get the nuts and hand it over.
It doesn't even want everyone to say from the bottom of their hearts, well
done guys, what do you want these
nuts who made the military to make
tails  everything is done here or not, this is
all these things, energy bars and
also mixtures of flakes on there are separate
volunteers. That is, we are from the center  we are chewing our
work and separate directions with separate
separate directions led by separate
people, let's say tactical medicine, you
just filmed with Anya, I am involved in
copters, there are people who directly form in us
These are such energy bars,
disposable flakes, such packages, which a
serviceman was in any conditions
can propose  water if there is such an opportunity in it
and to consume this story,
Petro Matviydyuk can name him, he
leads in this direction and all these things,
when we have them, we form them. He comes,
takes raw materials, there are people who do all this
. By the way, the religious community that
moved from Moscow  The patriarchy is in the
Ukrainian pirogovka and they are forming and doing it all there, and they
are already bringing us
ready-made mixes, ready-made packages that we
directly delivered to our
gatekeeper funds and now look, your
nuts will go to some kind of energy
mixes Yes, everything is super and someone there will
warm up with What is your name, Mene
Valentina  Valentina and Galina Mrs.
Valentina, the boys will remember Mrs. Valentina
and Ms. Halyna, tell me how delicious it is,
sisters, so let’s start,
please. We want to hand over the socks.
the artists made
them, we gave them to us, and we sell them at
fairs and auctions, and
we also direct all these winnings to the
purchase of the necessary things, that is, if there are
any artists who want to make a joke of their
painting at the ZSU Yes, they can bring it to you
And you are already doing something in this
people of completely different materials. We
are trying to combine all this into a common
common cause. That is, someone brings a
picture, someone sees nuts, someone who can do something,
yes, there is help for armed families. And
this is what I understand: schoolchildren collected it, yes,
because it is written by the Rozhyshny Lyceum and the
Nozhichyna Lyceum  Glory to Ukraine of
educational and preschool educational
institutions, please manage Yaroslav,
they constantly regularly supply us with
various  and hygiene products with goodies
, etc. We are not one box of soap,
one at a time, in the military. She specially
launches people, even this direction works.
other things are
delivered. There are two or three parcels for the military
, there are 10 of them and all of them.
we say that the fine was issued by the volunteers of Podillia,
that it was collected by the students of such and such a
school or such and such a preschool
educational institution, and they hand it over to the
military. You often accompany it. You
position yourself. As long as we are just
mediators, logisticians. Yes, between those
people who actually provide help and those
who receive it.  Yes, it is in different
aspects, here is an example. Here are such
beautiful trench candles. We are very
happy  darkness, we cooperate with people, it’s just
osbbshki, it’s just different houses. It’s
just conscious people who organize people there at their
enterprises, at their jobs. We
cooperate very well with the strata, which are basically the
same.
they bring ready-made ones, well, it’s
not exactly them, but ready-made
candles like these, which we also hand over to the boys of the
front line and wait for a report from them, and
then we drop such a photo report to them
right here near me, now there is a
parcel that we directly hand over to the
military group, preferably
Don't show phone numbers
directly. That is, we are our only
rule of volunteer mail. Repeat
now, I relaxed. I think we don't
accept alcoholic products and don't
hand them over.  very often,
see, I will comment so that
people understand  Look, what a cool idea.
Do you have any acquaintances? Relatives who are
at the front so that you don’t run there and don’t
look for them. How do you give them Nova Poshta, how can they
get there and then pick them up? Yes, there is a volunteer
post office, it is very important.
we take them
to places where they don't let anyone in anymore
and either we directly hand over that package or
they leave. Wherever they can
go out and we hand them over directly,
that is, we do what they can't
learn,
that is, it turns out that if a person needs
to hand over some kind of transmission to his relatives,
yes or  logistical support
or just something delicious or a
warm card, it can be done through And
what is very important is contact, that is, We
take some of the stress away from ourselves, namely
requests for some individual
things, there are separate pants sizes, etc. We position ourselves as
volunteers of Podillia,
assistance to the armed forces  we focus
on drones, cars, tactical medicine and
mail delivery, that is, so as not to waste
money and resources  for such small things, often
military personnel or their
relatives and friends with them can buy it somewhere
and pass it on, that is, there are no problems
with the purchase, but there is a problem with delivery.
That is, we go out to partially
relieve ourselves at some individual
events and you receive, you do this, a
person must think as one  thing to transfer
somewhere And so, you
are already centrally transporting many many because
advertising is already working great Our Aura yes our
Ukrainian language actually volunteer
mail they made such a European mail
as such as well as volunteer ones in general the
charity fund works in 2014, the
volunteer mail worked in 14-  15
at the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian war
and then, of course, when there was no such
integration, it
stopped its existence and from
February 24, in fact, from February 24, the
first crews were launched. What
started it all was that we had a huge
number of requests for military
vehicles  then there were no such means of
ammunition, helmets, plates, etc.,
etc  Why couldn't we, the state, then
provide it in such a quantity as it was
needed, yes, that's why we bought
official ones from France, from Poland, we won
everything where you could rake in helmets, and so on.
was stuffed in the
world that there wasn't
even one more passenger seat because
everything was filled up, then his humanitarian worker
who is needed in one or another unit
because if it goes, let's assume there is one car there, for example,
there is
one car going there and we understand that in
this unit all the necessary things are collected there
and  we experienced them,
either in the city council or on the planet, in the
cinema, all these things. That's why we
organized directly, this is the
address Kamianetska 63/1, where there is a
volunteer subscriber of Podillia, where
you can always come to hand over this
parcel and they will mark it correctly, if we
optimized everything so that
it relieved all of us
as much as possible and we did not give help as efficiently as possible,
but now we will see  how do
volunteers mark drones, but I also
looked at those drones that are bought and
handed over to the U.S. Armed Forces. This is how you do your
marking. Look, what is this for? We
do it so that, first of all,
we understand every drone that we do not hand over. And we
saw in  in the event of its loss, what do we
sometimes say a photo of Is this our Drone
We can't
initialize it before because there was nothing
except the serial number directly of it
which is very small and few people know where
it actually
initializes these of our Drone so we are a plus
for that  God forbid, who knew him,
someone somewhere stole the drone, something else, he didn't end
up in some Alex for
sale on the Internet, we indicate that it is not
for sale, we indicate who gave it,
that is, the volunteers of Podillia, and the serial
number. That is, we clearly understand who We
This Drone was sent, who was the
recipient, what questions do we have, who was the
sponsor or patron, e.e., for what funds
were purchased, that is, clearly such a
chronology so that we can then display  and
somehow it turns out that it minimizes such
risks that there are some unscrupulous
people Take this drone and then they
will resell it, that is, it is visible that
it is marked, yes, it is quite cool,
even this is a shipment.
to engrave, thank you also to
ours, engraving is not just paint, yes,
it's not just paint, it's engraving itself
, you also have to scratch it and you'll be able to
hand it in to him, that is, you understand, it's like a
nuance, but it's also some volunteers
who do it for free
on an irregular basis  this is also If his
contribution to our common cause By the way, it is very
cool because many people think that
you can join only with money and say
that it is actually possible to join there, but
someone can
do engraving for free with their services, so
type And what else can people join,
for example, in person  work, are there such
needs, yes, of course, we are all people who
come here. We try to write down and
correctly distribute  ask them about their needs,
about the things that it can help with.
Maybe they are specialists there at work in a
certain field, we are so open - we
just need some help there. That is,
it does not necessarily have to be a person who
came here and there from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.  she has
to do something. These are directly such
things, packing the same
individual packages for military personnel from those
educational institutions that provide those
goodies, hygiene products, etc. That is, this is the
kind of work that you can come for an hour to
pack and with this really unload,
help, and so on. These are drivers with various
the categories are
those who weave nets, these are those who do not know
whether they can help, but they
come, we record their
action coordinates, we communicate and then we try
to direct them as efficiently as possible.
cigarettes can be
dumped here, well, that is, we convert everything to the
maximum. This is how
electronic cigarettes are electrolyzed, which we transfer here
to these cool guys and girls who use them to
make power banks for the armed forces.
I thought they were cigarettes for the armed forces,
that is, they just
use cases, they just disassemble them,
pull out the batteries, and then tie them up and
make such power banks without registration,
that is, it turns out that a person can not  us
, that is, can she be useful, but
come to talk with you and you can
find, for example, the most effective way
to direct?
it was necessary at the same time, i.e. east and
west. We divided these drivers and divided these
groups because not everyone can cross the
border. That is, it is either with three children or
with groups of people who just came and
said I am ready to go as long as they don’t
take me, I just want an opinion  people
to convey that there is always an opportunity to help in some way,
contact, for example, in the city of
Khmelnytskyi and  m Foundation volunteers Podillia
What is your address public 63 hryvnia
German 63/1 or if in other cities
to some other fund or if in
Khmelnytskyi da Vinci flank which you
know and which you trust tell me I
want to get involved in something maybe we need
people who package some products  yes,
it is possible that you need someone
who knows how to work with
excellent people
to do some help. That is, you can
even do volunteer work from home
completely from work, that is, if
we understand any format, just a
lot of people think that if you are a volunteer, it
means you have to come there  here is only
money, give money and money, but in
fact there is a huge gap here, as we see a
huge patch of work, not financial,
but some kind of organizational work, where you
just have to devote yourself to it, and then
unpack it or report it, well, in
fact, we are often asked why the
functioning of this or that is  things,
for example, here in front of you is a box of
Podillia volunteers, here
people bring funds  they are honest, just conscious,
they just come often, they say, you are
volunteers, you share, yes, everything is fine,
you have a volunteer post office, they just throw
money, we are like that, stop, wait, you are
there, I just see on social networks, you
are working, I want to join, I can
, like that, for these funds  and then
fuel is bought and the guys take the parcels
to the front door. Were there any
stories of your volunteering or
funny that you want to share with people?
He picked blueberries, he handed them over, and he brought us money in a
box, then the season
changed, he brought, he handed over mushrooms.
It’s very cool that a person found
motivation He came to us with a big
He said Maybe they brought you mushrooms like this
no Let's make it shorter, like without mushrooms, but
it will be better like that later on we
had the direction of the family of nosy military
girls actively handing over
large packages for the families of the dead, and there was such an
offer to help  I asked if
someone needs to support a goat, because
you tell jokes there, like Well, I say goat
to  Well done, you'll need her.
Well, Cossacks, she thinks that for her, a
goat is survival - it's milk, and She
thinks that if we transfer the goat to the front,
the plot is that we sold it for the families of the
dead, we bought a military house in the
village, and she tells her  for sure, she is needed,
we are like that, no, we are inconvenient.
pulls the goat away from me if
I say help, you know it's funny
because in our country, for example, they heard a talik telling
her Girls who dry borscht that since February
they just realized that they can
do something at home, they it's very
hard work sent because she
washes its essence translate
we package it, we hand it over to the guys, they
light it, cook borscht, it's just really
cool, a can of stew on top and it
turns out really cool here. If you're at home,
you can make it.
I want d  about people, always convey the opinion
that you can always find something to contribute to
help, not necessarily with money, that's how a
businessman earns money, you can drop
money if you're just there, a pensioner or a
student, you can still find a way to
help a man, he does a little,
he has no way to pour in  he
just has a cap, he twists a cardboard box, there are
people who have to pour but don’t have
a cap, and we cooperate with these people,
that is, they can be bought so that people can
find them. Come, charity funds that
you know, which you trust,
suggest how I can be useful and everyone can
find some activity, put  like
for everyone Good afternoon Hello. So
who are you here? I am engaged in the logistics of volunteer
mail, that is, what is
your main activity, for
example, how does Vasyl Dmytrovych
receive parcels, then he brings me a document.
I enter everything into our database, so to speak.
for our drivers
to know immediately where they are going  They
immediately drew up a route for themselves, but where
in what region did you have to deliver
Dnipropetrovsk region Kherson
region
along the entire front in fact
And what, for example, I understand that people
bring parcels, do you remember in your history,
for example, the strangest thing was that they
delivered
live fish
They were small crucians. They seemed
to be for a cat. They
called for some task. They only asked if they
were delivered or alive. Well, there are almost a
couple of things there, but they didn’t make it very far.
And in general, everything is ok. I think we will
tell the story in the future.
when it's someone's birthday,
it's cakes, this is mom, there will be a cake,
please, I baked it myself, please, my
son is there, my brother, and it's very nice, and such a
part of the home is passed on, cool, cool.
departures of these
How difficult is it how long
does it take The
longest trip I had was 5 days It took a
long time Because the route is very long
there were also different shellings, the
trip is different, I can't say whether it's scary
because I know what we're doing it for,
and whether it was difficult, I mean,
maybe
morally,
you go around the city like this, locations where you
should give the military a parcel and
take it, we say  that he died, that's
just morally difficult, emotionally, that is, you
brought the parcel and there is no longer an addressee
Yes, we brought it and I'm sorry, but he
died, take it back and then it's very difficult to
contact your relatives and you don't know how to
ask if they already know about it  do not
know and we are sending back
what you wished to the people who want
to join the e-e help of yours or
another similar fund, how can you prove yourself
, first of all, I want to say that people do not
forget that the war continues and it is
very important now that we unite and
continue to help our  military,
because I think even a small part of
this grandmother and that uncle who will bring
at least something minimal,
two women and two sisters have already come in. Yes, she
is  she brought some nuts for the meadow, and the other one
knitted some socks, and here
they are, people want to get involved in some way,
this is their contribution, they can't
give millions of hryvnias, how can
some super businessman there, yes, but they
can tie nuts, and she  she understands that
she made her contribution to the victory,
but maybe look, maybe you don't need
this. Tell us what is needed. And we also
know that many people are
ashamed.
a businessman, where is there a
million hryvnias, he is like a philanthropist,
but I brought nuts And what will he look at me?
Well, you don't need to be shy,
I look at each and every little one, you have
completely different things,
from some expensive ones to some simple
cheap ones, yes, that is, everyone can
join and never be ashamed because it
is never a shame to help.
Glory to Ukraine, let
's talk now with Mr. Roman.
I understand that you are the driver above the drivers.
the drivers of the
car are three sprinters and we share how uh,
we drive through, we look, one car uh,
goes one Sunday, the second car goes on the second and
on the third, it happens that on a Sunday,
two cars leave, one in the Donetsk
direction, the second uh, in the Mykolaiv
Kherson direction, and how about you  got into the
fund. How did you accept it? Did they know how you
came? Well, I came somewhere, uh,
if the fund, uh, brought a camouflage net, there
was a need, and so
[music]
got hooked, then I got there. You brought a
camouflage net, so you saw that there is a team here
to go
abroad  to recruit military personnel for military
personnel, the fast ones went to
Germany, Poland, in addition to the fast ones
, they also drove the target T5 jeeps, well, what was the
need, and now there is a need for drivers.
that's enough. How
difficult is it to go on such trips, actually?
How many days do you go on an
extreme trip
?  we went there on Tuesday afternoon, we took the
military thermal imagers, the parcels, we
went there with a tow truck, and our brother had
to pick up the car from the Donetsk direction, the
engine seized up, so we brought
it here for repairs, but when we
were driving, it
was very difficult if the road was icy. It was a
little difficult to drive  but everything is normal, the
cylinder is healthy juice, you don't hear it somewhere
in a car or in some models or something
like basically if there are two drivers, then we
alternate one, in fact, it is a continuous
movement, well, it happens, if there, for example, they don't
get in touch, something on their phone
today  There is no connection. And they will only be
in touch tomorrow, so we stop and wait for the
addressee. Yes, and who to whom? We need to pass it on,
but here are some interesting stories from your
trips that you remember.
by the way, you're close to the
onion, the
ambulance was in a car, and
I drove away the second car, the T5,
I don't remember whether it was crippled, and in Poltava, at the
roadblock, a policeman came to me,
Ka  It's terrible that you have temporarily
overdue German license plates for yourself, a
fine. I say it's fine, I say in 5
hours this car will be military and
temporary German license plates are overdue. Well,
he's already moved away from this.
a military serviceman was also driving, to which
part we were transferring, there was somehow
more conflict between them, he says Let me take a
picture of you, he says No, you won't take a picture because it's military time, you
're at a checkpoint, I'm going to knock you with your
heads into the ground right now, I'm going to lower
everyone  things like this took a fine for fear,
issued a fine and said that if after
half an hour you don't pick up the car on a
carriage or on a tow truck, we will
put it at the penalty area ourselves,
this is the first time the crew came with an ambulance on a
tow truck with us, we called them
They stopped,
took off, caught an ambulance and returned from
they took us in an empty labyrinth, they took us
from us, we plunged into
the Kadik post, we arrived at the ambulance, we were already
saying among ourselves that  after the war we will
buy fishing and we will
already. If it was filmed 3-4 times a day,
maybe the fund applied somewhere in the
Poltava authorities, this military man who
was traveling with me, he went somewhere on Facebook.
I think that such things should be
made public. Well, because here they take to
the front here is not a fact that this car lives
there for a week, conditionally, yes, the
license plates are expired, so what else is
needed. Listen, let's go to the place
where this car is serviced, we will write out
fines, yes, it is certainly interesting.
if the place fulfills its
duties, but I think it is not appropriate.
Moreover, on what basis should I take out
insurance if the car has temporary
military temporary German
plates?  do yours as he says. Yes,
what do you want to wish for the Ukrainians, how
can they participate in it?
with the help of what kind of
hands are needed, maybe
you are the driver for loading, yes,
I am doing my own direction, but each
person who is
on his own can tell you if you
don’t need help yet, that is, what would we
do
if there is, to figure it out so that
after  it was already a month of such cases.
It was the month of September. Somewhere in September, the
month was already full of such audacity. In March
, we did not
have any insurance. Today this
car with volunteer mail is going in the
Donetsk direction. There was a need for a
serviceman in such a car, and
I think tomorrow we will risk it.
transmission.
Yes, this car is abroad.
And how does it work? You yourself find where
to buy them, are there any Volunteers
who are
generally one of the directions, as well as the
provision of cars for our
military personnel, one of the main
directions of the owners of Podillia, that is, we
have a separate attachment of people  who are
responsible for their purchase and their
transportation, as well as one of the drivers
Roman task yes. Even only the front
direction of providing drivers - exit and the
western one. That is, it is to Poland, it is to
Germany, it is to other European countries from where
they bring it directly.
we organize a car, they
get in the number of drivers we
need, and they transport them along the
way,
logistically, drop them off, you take one
car, there are three drivers to Europe, yes, there are three of
us, it is not profitable, at least five or six
cars
look strange at the border  when you go, the
border guard is like,
right away, these border guards are
clairvoyants, well, right away, they show the documents, you
know, they drive by and then
they come back again. That is, we have to
understand that it is actually a huge
layer of work to negotiate. These cars are
inspected, they are prepared, not
some random cars.
I work with
sites in Germany. By the way, ours
a Ukrainian from Khmelnytskyi is the owner of the
largest post office, the
largest of this post office, we
cooperate with them directly, he selects
cars specifically for the armed forces, he
understands that in Germany, the name of the city
is not the same, he simply does not call it, he is, that is,
we are sure of these cars that he will not
just arrive  to Khmelnytskyi with more than
1,000-1,500 km, and at least it
will be necessary to invest in its preparation to be
sent by the guys, it often happens, you know,
people collect there, but they decided to collect it for a
car, they collect it, they don’t understand those
cars, then they collected it, oh damn,
we need to repair it,
better there is something  Do you need to add or something
else? One side is the purchase, finding them, the
friend, the driver who takes the
transportation, the documentation of all this is
very important, that is, the acts of applying to the
border service for the tereoke.
We already have cars to Ukraine. There, the teams know that it cannot
be that  who did you transfer to someone and
someone took it and sold or resold it there, a
volunteer comes to
Ukraine, the declaration of
recognition of humanitarian aid is not cleared, each
car is legally on the fund and then the
fund officially transfers
many of these cars in a direct transfer, i.e. a different
transfer scheme. That is, she gets up  on the
balance of some military unit.
That is, this is one side, then here it is a
conversion, because if we take a
classic T5 car that we
bring, it is a cargo vehicle. It does not have a
passenger seat with partitions
.
I got in if it is for the transportation of
personnel, the
number of seats is needed, I adapt it, it turns
out according to the specific needs, they handed over the
Caddy car last week, it only has
a passenger seat and in the back a cargo
compartment for the transportation of weapons
.  repair, this is
technical support, this is very important,
all cars that we will transfer are
equipped with such kits. And this
cable, jack, compressor, clinical, is very important for me,
yes, I want to record this opinion.
Yes, it is very important, not only.
they handed over something and
I was more satisfied, they handed over the car, that’s all
ours, you know, they handed us over there, for example, a
knife Yes, but there is a kitchen knife Yes, there is a knife,
for example, some kind of repairman needs completely
different things, and as you said, I
didn’t even think about it Yes, what is there Someone doesn’t
need a seat because there  this minometer should be
given as necessary, but there are a lot of
such stories, it’s all really fun, there is a
funny story
about a track in Germany from Aleksandr.
We are a very funny story, but the whole column
that was following me. They say that they were
scared because it looked very
fast at  the autobahn
was driving in columns, I was driving it, the fact that this
car was driving at a certain speed and in a
sheep column, that’s how the story happened,
that is, I stretched everything a little  the
convoy broke down. We were left with
tow trucks. Additional costs were incurred during the
search for the service. They left the car.
By the way, it is very cool that there are always
Ukrainians who help us there, even in such situations, as if they were not predicted. The
same happened this time.
they recommended the remaining car,
he serviced it for free,
and then we sent drivers who
picked it up for free, it was already ready,
there are many of our people there,
Ukrainians or those who sympathize with us
in European countries, and how can they
join in addition to transferring
communication funds,
namely the purchase  those things that are either in
short supply in Ukraine or they are here at
completely different prices at inflated prices than,
let's say, in Poland or in Germany,
when we didn't have a walkie-talkie, especially at the beginning
, it was impossible to buy a
thermal imager, they just weren't
available, we searched as much as possible in  England,
even the USA sent us from Canada
the parcels were targeted at lupo-much cheaper
prices, which even later, when they were
available, could be purchased here, we
handed them over to military personnel, who,
thank God, are still working with them to this day and
are destroying the Russians.
our convoy of
cars is going logistically. Each of our
cars is loaded with a humanitarian truck,
it is going empty, even the one that
dropped off the drivers is filled with
humanitarian aid, and we
tell it where to take what to take, and then it
turns back. What opinion do I want to convey?
from outside Europe Yes, contact
those volunteer foundations that you
trust, you sympathize with, as you
can be useful, you may not even
imagine How much you will help if you
even know the area, so they
can consult with you Yes, in the same way,
we did not know how to call the closest tow truck
to  everything turned out as cheap as possible,
we call our Ukrainians in
Poland, they p  acquaintance is found in the
fields, he advises someone and comes.
if I'm
there in Germany, the city is like this,
if you need any help, go somewhere,
find out, check if it's really
there, the store doesn't have the strength to send the parcel,
and then wait a few days until the drivers
pick it up. That's also help,
many people think that just help
it's just to drop money and that's all, but
in fact there is still a big layer, how can you
write and it is no less important?
Well, of course, it is accompanied by the consumption of
fuel.
it's cheaper
to stuff them all in there and bring them, it
's not cheaper, plus you won't
put g  humanitarian aid, you will not take away
all the necessary things and logistics from
other countries that need to
be brought here to Ukraine. In general, we are trying to
accumulate all these things that we
supply with star forces and cars and
copters and all tactical
medicine so that when we know,
let's assume then this began  four
months ago, the active phase under Bakhmut, a
huge number of turnstiles were needed,
we did not have such a
large number of
individually disassembled ones, and the scumbag
even began to take out
first-aid kits from the kits and transfer them There
were needs specifically for turnstiles, and we
correctly understood in other aspects
what was needed  accumulate these things a little
so that when there is a need Today we just
took and handed over as soon as we
start looking and either time passes
or we don't help in time, well, this
also has to be a car, what's the story, we also
reserved a car for one of the divisions, we
bought it  for the unit and
we transfer in one week  at the same time,
in a neighboring unit, a T5 car. And
it was for another uh unit, and then we
talked about the title, when did you bring this
car, do you need anything
left in this car, maybe
other volunteers provided it, maybe a military
unit found it somewhere, maybe it’s just
the need has disappeared, they say, you know, in the
system of the unit there is your T5, which you
handed over last week, and we, uh, we
united and we communicate normally,
we don't have a tailor, there is already such a need to
deliver food, weapons,
ammunition there than it was before that, so it
turns out that  we, uh,
if we were to unify it all and try
to contact the military again
to understand the problem, not just by
calling the phone or simply hanging the
car on the car, let us
understand what the army is, well, in many
places volunteer organizations are scattered and
so are we, thanks to the volunteer mail
we see the need directly, a very
huge number of needs and requests are
brought by the guys because they see where  they are
ashamed to say that people came to
watch, yes, this action is not enough, they
do not understand what conditions they are in
if they are really not advanced, they
work and not somewhere in the headquarters
[music]
so that it turns out your drivers and girls,
when they brought them, did they really see whether
they are performing any  task Is it somewhere
far away in a prison and they may not
need such a priority car now, it is very
important Because if we were to provide, let's say,
pickup trucks, we can't do much of everything right now.
cost is also a very
important aspect, that is, we try
to distribute the
resources with which everyone donates to the fund as efficiently as possible and
all those volunteers who join separately,
I want to thank all the subscribers of Andriy
Popyk not only on YouTube, it is thanks
to us together that we managed to realize
one copter, we have already handed over  We ordered one copter.
I think
it should be here even today by evening  at the
wholesale warehouses in the city of Khmelnytskyi, and we are also
handing over two garmins to the
special operations forces. This is all thanks to
your donations. We thank you very much for the beginning.
People who we do not know them at all. Yes,
but they see what we say. Well, we
collect for uh
through the fund  and if they would donate And it was
really nice to collect it, I want everyone to
see that these funds are spent effectively, not
just you know, they collected it somewhere and Something went
somewhere like that, because it is very important that
we now collect something in every basement,
someone collects something so conditionally, so everyone
if they collect, they collect, but the money is not
infinite, it is a limited resource and
it is desirable. That's how it is with the model of this car. It's
very cool here, not only did they order the
car, they handed it over, yes, you brought it. Yes,
you brought it.
who was the guys who
need more and this is very, very cool
because it is necessary for every hryvnia to
work as efficiently as possible.
Good afternoon.  Do you
bring these goodies? Yes, you can say, yes, yes,
I am making such a material that
prompted you to
do this activity, yes, they pass it on. That is, you understand,
you are broken, there are those who make it and
those who deliver it.
that's why, just in the
kopistin, older people have
cooperated and are doing what they can for the
armed forces of Ukraine, they made a great
opening on all the excursions here, the
light went out, but even if there is no light,
Ukrainian volunteers still work,
so there is no light, the work is boiling and so we
have to, Russia wants  break us so that we
would sit in despair, but
you can always do something, the light will appear, and the
work must be done. And I want all of
us and those who watch us from Ukraine and from
other countries to join as much as
possible in helping the armed forces of Ukraine,
whoever can with money, help with money  who
can
help with goodies with some goods, help with goodies, who can
come with their own work, help sort something,
or call someone
suppliers or call people e-e
how they communicate there is always
a job for everyone there is an unfinished business
find
volunteer funds in your cities that you trust
that you see that they are doing the right
thing Come and tell me how I can
help very often volunteers do
not have time to search  someone to
help me today, I went to see
everyone is boiling, everyone has some kind of work, so
come and ask how I can help.
I believe that each of you can do something
cool. Glory to Ukraine